So, we're gonna define generic
services now, because as I said,
we're gonna talk about both generic and
microservices.
So, generic services often refer to a
component of an application that provides
specific functionality to the platform.
Here's the biggest thing to note about
generic services, generic services could
be part of a monolithic application where
all services run within the same process.
Or it could be a part of
a distributed system where
services may run in separate
processes on separate machines.
So, when we talk about service, we might
not necessarily just be talking about
a literal running service, you might also
be talking about a service design, right?
Things like MVC, patterns and
things like that,
that exist in different
types of back ends.
Where you have things like factories and
other approaches in
the logic that allow you to spin
up a service in the monolith.
Or saying that you wanted to separate that
service into its own running process,
it can be either of those,
it doesn't really matter there.
So, this is what a basic distributed
generic service architecture looks like,
and if we recall what we had before,
right?
We had our frontend service, and
our backend service in our monolith, and
then that went to the database, right?
Who can tell me by looking at this, what
benefits we get by going to this approach
from the monolith approach, of just simply
separating the frontend and backend?
What are some benefits we get from this?
>> Speaker 1: Scale them separately.
>> Eric Reinert: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Fault tolerance.
>> Speaker 2: And easier to deploy and
manage, I guess.
>> Eric Reinert: Exactly, yeah,
those are pretty much it.
Yeah, so you can scale your
frontend services separately,
right, you can have
better fault tolerance.
So, for example, if your frontend
only needs a couple of replicas or
something like that but
then your backend needs a ton more,
you can have different fault
requirements and things like that.
And you can now have a frontend team that
works in their own world while having
a backend team that works
in their own world as well.
And going back to the library and
stuff like that,
sharing it between the frontend and
the backend.
This approach also makes it so
that you start thinking out of the box,
how can we serve each other, right?
Instead of thinking, well,
this just works here,
you start thinking more of I'm serving or
providing a service to the frontend,
how do we do that as
efficiently as possible, right?
You don't really think about that as
much when you're in a monolith because
everything's tied together,
it's all in one place.
And so, you really just kind of, again,
going back to the Next.js example,
you're literally rendering your backend
logic with your frontend view, and
then you show the frontend.
But with this, you really do start
having these teams work together and
talking about, okay,
well instead of it being a library,
I'd rather make this be something
like a restful endpoint, right?
That maybe has its own schema and
its own request flow.
And then that makes it so
that the responsibility of controlling and
maintaining that endpoint relies on the
backend team, and then the frontend team
just simply focuses on implementing
that logic into the frontend.
>> Eric Reinert: Also,
what's another thing to notice here,
what's one other thing we could
notice about this architecture
compared to the monolith going
back to the security thing?
>> Speaker 3: There's more space
between the frontend where people
will actually be-
>> Eric Reinert: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: And you're fancy-
>> Eric Reinert: Exactly, yeah, so say for
example, somebody decides
to DDoS your frontend and
they don't hit a route that
potentially accesses the database.
In the monolith approach, it don't matter,
it's still gonna potentially exhaust those
connections, it still could potentially
affect other parts of the system.
Whereas this clear separation in
this clear isolation, makes it so
that the backend only
talks to the database.
The frontend doesn't need to have
access to it, it can't be exploited and
access through it and things like that.
So, this separation here does start to
even give you some of that security out
of the box where you just don't
have to be worried as much about,
is my frontend going to give access to
my database, or something like that.
This is genuinely one of the reasons
why I prefer a distributed approach
than a monolith, especially for frontends.
Because I want to know that my
frontend will never impact my backend
unless I explicitly tell it it should,
right?
And a good example of this is login pages,
right, login components, right?
You might have it so
that your logins on your front frontend
fail fast if you're unauthenticated.
But you might need to have more logic in
a monolith for them to share that,
which means you're still
putting stress on the database.
Versus potentially just
having a caching service and
making that much more performant.